what does it mean to be a lustful woman
at the movies to lust after what you're
seeing on the screen
and to be obviously horny about it is
sometimes known
as thirst
thirst is desperate it's insistent on
being quenched
and when women are feeling lust in this
way they often turn to the movies
there in the darkness of the cinema
fantasy
reigns supreme
we are often looked at and used as
objects of desire in film
but on occasion if you pick the right
movies and the right moments
women get to do some lustful looking of
our own
sadness the frequent objects of women's
desire are
naturally movie stars that could be
whether they're stripping off for us
doing some traditional flirting what are
you doing i'm looking at you
or being a little bit more forward
[Music]
since the 1920s matinee idols like
rudolf valentino
filled the silver screen in the early
20th century
women made up more audience members than
men
and could look on screen to find what
and whomever they took a fancy to in
german film may chin in uniform a
buttoned-up girls boarding school
becomes the backdrop
for intense student-teacher passion
allowing for one of the first lesbian
kisses in movie history
shall we sit down in fact even hollywood
was free wheeling where
a woman's bohemian living arrangements
with two men were played for laughs
bisexual glamour queens like garbo and
dietrich
appeal to both sexes while aggressively
hetero 1950's rom-coms
still showed off their dreamboat leads
mr allen i'm from the telephone company
well hello
these days filmmakers get away with much
more
than just hinting at female desire
[Music]
when female pleasure is catered to on
screen
things can look a little bit different
take
romantic drama the way we were where
barbara streisand
long infatuated with golden boy robert
redford
finally gets him into her bed her
expression
in close-up is one of near-orgasmic
disbelief the audience is being asked to
identify with her
not with the object of her affections
with redford
as the glamorous love object it is
streisand
who does the chasing the yearning and
the desiring
and the audience is implicitly made to
understand why
just look at him
[Music]
some male stars allow themselves to be
more open to this gaze than others
to paraphrase the original matinee idol
rudolf valentino
they are the canvas for women to project
their dreams onto
in american gigolo richard gere plays up
to the role
tanned toned well-dressed and eager to
please in bed
is it what you expected this is where
director paul schrader
breaks the rules his camera jumps over
the traditional 180 degree eye line
moving the perspective to the other side
of the bed suddenly
from this vantage point we are no longer
looking down at lauren hutton
but up at gear offering a full shirtless
view of him
as he does his sweet talking it's subtle
but schrader is encouraging us to drink
in
all the sensual appeal of this expert
male sex worker
who is giving his version of a
performance for his female clients
here's a man who's performing his sexual
appeal
and exhibiting his body in a way
typically solely reserved for women
on screen in pretty woman
where the rolls are reversed and richard
gere is out to buy sex
rather than sell it the camera frames
him a little bit differently
an appraising and seemingly happy
customer
the film is ostensibly for a female
audience
but the framework isn't particularly
intent on showcasing gear's looks
[Music]
but when we do get to cast a
surreptitious eye on the male body
or we see a scene about women's pleasure
instead of men's
i had sex today
holy a character who knows
exactly what she wants in the bedroom
i'll show up sometimes see me
i'm home every evening or someone is
even inviting us to look
and lust along with her we're seeing
something a little bit thrilling
maybe by tracing a potted history of
lusty
women and the objects of their lust in
cinema
we can help to normalize and celebrate
female sexuality
in real life so when we go to the movies
we're horny we're happy about it and
we're not sorry
who knows
[Music]
uh
[Applause]
[Music]
you